
Little to nothing of an Age of Man survives its ice age. At the beginning of each Age, people of all races must rediscover everything. Typically, soon after magic is discovered, the planet is driven into an ice age by its overuse. This erases all knowledge and several species. What ice age stories are banging around in your head?

The First Age (peaking 490,000 years ago) had a multitude of races of Man interacting, fighting, trading, and allying. Many wonders were built by many races. The first ice age came as a total surprise. Many species were lost in that time. Humankind almost perished. The wonders of stone, gossamer, and steel created in that age... were ground from the Earth by the ice. Do you have any stories that would fit in the First age?

The Second Age (peaking 410,000 years ago) had fewer races of Man, and without the Centaurs, those who were left were more wary of each other. Many more wars, less building, and philosophy. The Second was the Age where the Saugentine Wars took place. What do you think the Saugentine Wars were about?

The Third Age (peaking 320,000 years ago) was a renewal age. The Saugentine Wars had left a mark on the psyche of every remaining race of Man. Magic was used only for utilitarian purposes as a matter of custom. Until it wasn't. Just as Sparta stopped minting money in iron, customs change, and the Third Age fell. Are there tales of renewal you would like to write?

The Fourth Age (210,000 to 190,000 years ago) saw immense leaps in magical knowledge. Magic was too widespread however to allow the Earth to fully recover. Tyrants limited magic's use by beheading those caught. As a way to maintain their monopoly on it and the power it gives. The Sidhe used magic to evolve, the giants used it to build wonders, and the humans used it to make gold from base metal. Is there a specific tyrant you would like to write about?

The Fifth Age (peaking 105,000 years ago) was an age of philosophy. Each year the races of Man became ever more “enlightened,” and each year the races of man also became ever more arrogant. Until they saw no need to limit their use of magic... leading to the next ice age. Would you plumb philosophical ideas in this age?

The Sixth Age, It started with the loss of Atlantis, the last reservoir of human knowledge from the 5th Age. Our age is the age of technology. Without magic to lean on, people have had to delve into natural laws instead of magic to get things done. This has kept the planet warm and habitable. In fact global warming is the result of not using magic. Which means the planet will warm until it reaches equilibrium as it did in the Jurassic.
