In Past Ages, people as we know them were only one of the many species of Man...

There were the Trolls. (1st - 4th Ages) Famed for their bridge building skills, they bridged all the major rivers and chasms. Trolls connected the world.  Until people became jealous of the accumulated wealth and killed them for it. Plunging the world into chaos culminating in the ice age of the Fourth Age.

There were the Sidhe (Shee) (1st - 6th Ages) They initially discovered magic in the First age and used it in the Fourth age to evolve beyond the need for mortal bodies.  In each age they became ever more reclusive. They live today in their transcendental realm. They travel freely  back and forth that immaterial land to ours. That's how they forbid the knowledge of magic to us. 

The Giants (1st - 5th Ages) Famed for their intellect in the First Age, by the Fifth Age they were feared as man-eaters.

The Hobbits (3rd - 5th Ages) Keeping to themselves they were incredible farmers. Until the last ice age reduced them to cannibals.

Elves (1st - 5th Ages)  They were skilled craftsmen able to create wonders without the use of magic.  Astonishingly beautiful with thousand year lifespans, the Elves survived until the Younger Dryass. Their genes however survive in us. Modern man calls them Denisovans.

Centaurs (1st Age) Lived in the First Age. Teachers, builders, and philosophers, they died out in the first ice age.

Sasquatch and their Icy cousins the Yeti (2nd - 6th Ages) appeared during the Second Age. Reclusive, naturalistic, and unfriendly, some say they exist today, hidden with the help of the Sidhe.

Goblins (1st - 4th Ages) They cursed all the races of Man from the before First Age until the Fourth Age. They were known for making metal bells with their demonic deities fastened to the top. One was found in a lump of coal. They would ring them to call upon their deity's help.

Dwarves (1st - 5th Ages) They were a fixture in gambling dens. No one can tell how much wealth they squandered on gambling. Otherwise they lived in their caverns and mines.

Ghosts (1st - 6th Ages) They have existed since the First Age. They are souls that haven't moved on so are stuck. In constant pain and lost they are usually irrational. “Killing” one moves it on.
