
Magic is possible because reality is will and observation. Our consciousness shapes reality. Even today in the technological age, everything we create starts as an idea in the mind of a person, and through will, we bring it into being. Magic does it without the need of tools. 

How does it work?

The magic user concentrates his or her Chi. Building Chi to painful levels, then, once enough is built up... releasing it in a focused reality changing thought. The Chi is like a car's transmission and the Earth's heat is the engine. Unless engaged it's in neutral. Chi is built by concentration.  In some forms of magic the user takes a position and mentally focuses Chi. In other schools the user exploits movement to focus Chi. How would that look in your story?

Magic is capable of anything given the willingness of the caster to suffer. The pain of the caster coupled with the heat from the Earth combine to do physical work. The largest boulder can be lifted, a lake can be drained, or a mote can be skillfully plucked from another's eye.  Imagine the uses for such magic?

Magic effects the physical world but cannot effect the mind. It can't make you love someone, feel something, or do anything against your will.  As a conscious observer you effect magic... magic doesn't effect you. With the exception of generating heat to cause physical pain or death. Rocks can be hurled at enemies in war with magic. The body can be destroyed but the mind is immune.  However... can magic be used to gaslight us into insanity?

Magic can heal the body and bring the recently dead back to life. It can regrow limbs, make us taller, stronger, shorter, or weaker.  What stories does this inspire?

Magic can teleport. In the Fourth Age many people tried to teleport to the Moon, Mars, and even Venus but no one came back. As a result efforts stopped. Did any think ahead enough to survive? 

Powerful magic can bring things into being. The complexity of the conjured thing determines the  energy and pain it requires. Often just keeping it on  this plane requires constant effort. Which is why food can't be magically produced. Well... it can, but the moment the conjurer stops conjuring it... it goes away, leaving the stomach empty. Is there a way around this law?

Supernatural beings can be conjured and controlled by magic. The magic however is dangerous and supernatural beings have a tendency to trick their conjurers. What tricks do you think they would play?

In our age, the Sixth Age, the Sidhe keep us from discovering magic in a multitude of ways. They've blocked our Chi, blinded our third eye, and if someone persists in experimenting, they get a run of luck so bad... it kills them. Blocking our Chi is why we only live to a century when in past ages people lived hundreds of years. Some say the Sidhe forbid magic to save us from another ice age, others say they only want to maintain their monopoly on magic. Where would you like to take this?
